{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The following methods are extracted from the text of my dissertation since it contains more detail than any of the publications to-date. \
(The whole thing is available on my website: http://people.oregonstate.edu/~novakm/publications/)\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\ri0
\cf0 Novak M. (2008). Trophic omnivory and the structure, strength, and nonlinear nature of species interactions across a productivity gradient. In: 
\i Ecology and Evolution
\i0 . University of Chicago, Ph.D. Chicago, p. 258.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\

\b Relevant publications:
\b0 \

\i Theory behind the observational approach:
\i0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\ri0
\cf0 Novak M. & Wootton J.T. (2008). Estimating nonlinear interaction strengths: an observation-based method for species-rich food webs. 
\i Ecology
\i0 , 89, 2083-2089.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \

\i Experimental test of the observational approach (includes data on Haustrum scobina for the two NW coast sites):
\i0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\ri0
\cf0 Novak M. (2010). Estimating interaction strengths in nature: experimental support for an observational approach. 
\i Ecology
\i0 , 91, 2394-2405.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \

\i Comparison of feeding rate estimates from the observational approach to stable isotope inferences:
\i0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\ri0
\cf0 Yeakel J.D., Novak M., Guimar\'e3es P.R., Jr., Dominy N.J., Koch P.L., Ward E.J., Moore J.W. & Semmens B.X. (2011). Merging Resource Availability with Isotope Mixing Models: The Role of Neutral Interaction Assumptions. 
\i PLoS ONE
\i0 , 6, e22015.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl-280\pardirnatural

\i\b \cf0 Feeding surveys
\b0 \

\i0 Repeated cross-sectional feeding surveys in several predetermined areas at each site over the course of two years (May 2005 \'96 July 2007). These surveys consisted of systematic, ~ \'bd hr. long low-tide searches of the high zone during which each found whelk was counted and carefully examined (picked up) to determine whether or not it was feeding. I recorded the identity and size of prey items, and the size of all feeding and non-feeding whelks (\'b1 1 
\i mm
\i0 ). Surveys were conducted during both the day and at night, and were not repeated in the same area for at least four high-tides. Preliminary surveys repeated more frequently suggested that four high-tides was ample time for whelks to commence normal feeding activity between surveys \
\
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\

\i\b Handling time experiments
\b0 \

\i0 	Handling times could be measured in a variety of ways (Novak and Wootton 2008). I measured the time needed for a whelk to drill and ingest prey in the laboratory. For example, whelks (7 to 18 
\i mm
\i0 ) and 
\i Xenostrobus 
\i0 mussels
\i  
\i0 (3 to 22 
\i mm
\i0 ) were collected at Tauranga Head and transported to the Edward Percival Field Station, Kaikoura. There, mussels were maintained with flowing sea water (~9-11\'b0C) filtered to 40 
\i m
\i0 , while whelks were sorted into aerated aquaria in three temperature-controlled rooms maintained at ~10, 14, and 18\'b0C (monitored using iButton\'ae temperature loggers, Maxim Integrated Products, CA) and a 12:12
\i hr
\i0  day:night cycle. After an acclimation period of at least 3 days and starvation period of at least 5 days, individual whelks were measured (\'b1 0.1 
\i mm
\i0 ), placed into aerated 4 
\i l
\i0  semi-translucent plastic aquaria filled with ~3 
\i l 
\i0 of sea-water situated in each temperature room, and provided with six mussels of similar size. Whelks were subsequently checked on an hourly basis and classified as either feeding or not feeding. A trial ended when both the start and end of a whelk\'92s feeding had been well-constrained (each within a 2
\i hr
\i0  24
\i min
\i0  window or a maximum possible start to end time difference being \uc0\u8804  80% of the midpoint time) or if the whelk had not commenced feeding within two weeks. I measured the prey of all successful predation events (\'b1 0.1 
\i mm
\i0 ) and visually estimated the proportion of unconsumed tissue remaining.\
	I estimated handling times for 
\i Haustrum
\i0 \'92s remaining prey species in the same manner but obtained whelks and prey from either Tauranga Head or east coast locations nearer the laboratory. The only prey species for which the above method was not employed were barnacles. Instead, whelks and barnacles were brought to the laboratory from an east coast site (42\'b027\uc0\u8242 07\u8243  S, 173\'b034\u8242 08\u8243  E) where barnacles had naturally recruited onto cement tiles over the course of three years. Barnacle tiles and one or two whelks were placed into ~1 
\i l
\i0  plastic aquaria with independent and continually flowing filtered sea-water, the temperature of which varied over the course of the year. Whelk feeding events were monitored using low-light video cameras under natural day:night lighting conditions supplemented by a red light at night. The size of barnacle prey was measured under a dissecting microscope (\'b1 0.1 
\i mm
\i0 ).\
	For each prey species I regressed the duration midpoint of all feeding events on whelk size, prey size, and temperature using log-transformed data weighted by the inverse of the difference between the maximum and minimum possible duration of each feeding event. Thus a handling time that had been constrained to within one hour received less weight than a handling time constrained to 10 minutes. Feeding events in which < 80% of prey tissue had been consumed were excluded.\
\
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\

\i\b Abundance surveys
\b0 \

\i0 	I estimated the population density of all invertebrate species at each site using ten to fifteen 0.25 
\i m
\i0 \super 2\nosupersub  quadrats distributed randomly among three 20 
\i m
\i0  transects. Transects were haphazardly located within the same high zone areas in which feeding surveys were conducted. At least one-third of the quadrats were surveyed at night. I accounted for cross-quadrat variation in bedrock topography by dividing each mobile species\'92 quadrat count by the ratio of the minimum distance between opposing quadrat corners (\uc0\u8730 0.5 m) and the average distance between quadrat corners measured by following the topography of the substrate surface with a flexible line. Sessile species percent-cover estimates were converted to densities using species-specific cover-count conversion relationships determined for each site (M. Novak, 
\i unpubl. data
\i0 ). Surveys were repeated three times at each site (May-July 2005, January-February 2006, May 2006)\
}